fire is all around us we use it on a
daily basis in the olden days fire was
considered to be one of the four major
elements those elements are water earth
wind and fire not earth wind and fire
the major popular band from the
seventies silly but if it isn't a 70s
rock band what is fire hello i am
professor patio furniture i'd like to
tell you what fire is made from fire is
made from a combustion reaction but what
is a must in reaction it is caused by a
fuel usually carbon based or end the
combination of that fuel and oxygen and
with a little bit of heat they can form
fire like in this butane lighter there
are many types of fuels that can be
burned in a combustion reaction some of
these fuels include alkanes hydrocarbons
with single bonds alkenes hydrocarbons
with double bonds and alkynes
hydrocarbons with triple bonds there are
other fuels that are nitrogen base like
hydrazine used in rocket fuel and
hydrogen gas which is very flammable
when gases like hydrogen combine with
oxygen or combust they make water vapor
when a hydrocarbon like ethane combusts
with oxygen it makes carbon dioxide and
water vapor one of the most common
combustion reactions happens every day
in people's gas tanks gasoline is
combusted with oxygen and produces
carbon dioxide which comes out of the
tailpipe as small gases are not the only
thing that come out of combustion
reaction you also get energy in the form
of heat and light and a fool's produced
but what exactly is a flame for that we
have to go to professor patio furniture
patty whole again children well what is
my fire is fire matter matter is
anything that occupies space so the
flame itself is matter because it is a
mixture of gases that are burning but
the light that you get from the fire is
not matter it is energy also the heat
from the fire is not matter in his Angie
so only the flame itself is matter
and the reason the flames go up is
because they are burning the gases are
burning and they're lighter than the air
such as this match though I'm holding it
horizontally the flames are still moving
up because the gases that are being
burned our big have a lighter density
than the atmosphere worst transition
over oh sorry kids aren't matches great
now let's ask the smartest man in the
world what the history of matches are
and how they work why hello there Joey
it is I Wild Bill Cunningham the
smartest man on the planet I'm here to
talk to you about the history of matches
and how they work his were first
invented in 1826 by John Walker
he was working in this chemistry lab
working we gather slump of chemicals
that drive on the end of the stick
Oh
tried to scratch the chemical off stick
on the floor and suddenly the stick
ignited this was the first match stick
these matches were different from the
matches of today because they don't
contain any phosphorus but how do
matches work exactly let me tell you i
am mr. cunningham the way it works is
when you strike the sulfur-containing
match head across the fred
phosphorus-containing box the friction
causes a reaction that turns the red
phosphorus to white phosphorus with
white phosphorus is exposed to air it
ignites
giving enough energy to cause the sulfur
to produce oxygen gas and causing a
flame world class today you learn that
fire is one of the most important parts
of our life it can be used as practical
use like cooking in industrial use and
helping prevent forest fires and even
when you're casually sitting at home
lighting a scented candle yes fire is
very important and you shouldn't take it
for granted so the next time you're
breathing in oxygen don't just thank it
for life thank it for fire have a great
day I don't forget to turn your self
evaluations
the tribe
joseph stalin island called natural copy
of rock and light and heat